welcome to the man of recaps this is
dark season 3 at the end of season 2 the
apocalypse was starting in windin Marto
was just shot by illness his older self
Adam but another marcha came in with
black hair and bangs like hey I'm from
another world
let's peace out of here she and yonas
pop up in her world but in typical dark
fashion she doesn't tell him what he's
supposed to do and just leaves him to
figure it out so welcome to earth 2 aka
mirror world Marta is filling the onus
is role in this world wearing his yellow
rain jacket and everything and in fact
she's living in his house but everything
is backwards yeah it's super trippy the
Nielsen's are living in unisys house
because in this reality ulrich left
catarina for hannah who is now pregnant
but Oliver can't help himself in this
reality he's cheating on his wife Hannah
with his co-worker Charlotte Doppler
there's a lot of other fun minor changes
like Magnus has black hair and tattoos
he's still dating Francisca Doppler but
in this one she's deaf and her sister
Elizabeth can speak also eyepatch cop
Waller has both his eyes here but he's
lost an arm and we still don't have any
idea why Jonas tracks down Marta but
this version of her hasn't time traveled
yet and doesn't recognize him at all
because on the night the gang goes to
explore the caves Mikkel was sound
asleep in bed he never travels back and
yonus is never born
yonis meets old Marta who was a mirror
of his older self Adam in fact there's a
whole Adam and Eve theme going on she
goes by Eva she's like hey onus the
apocalypse is coming to this world - in
just a few days you need to stop it
illness has spent two seasons now doing
what older Time Traveller's have told
him to and they basically all I'd to him
but she's like no no you can trust me
this time it's for real
now the slightly older Marta that saved
yonas from the apocalypse has travelled
way back to 1888 here she finds doing
some cool old timey experiments adulty
Onis yeah when he and the teenagers
escaped the apocalypse they accidentally
traveled way back here yonas is super
happy to see Marta alive but she's got
to break the bad news to him no I'm not
you're Marta I'm from Earth - their time
machine is out of juice so they're all
stuck here but they have an old blind
man patron who's helping them reinvent
time travel because he's part of sick
mundis this is old man tan house yes
he's a descendant of wind ins time
travel clock maker turns out Adam is not
the founder of Sigma anis it's the tan
house family legacy going back to when
this guy's dad tried to invent time
travel to bring back his dead wife
anyway Marta has one orb of time-travel
juice left and options to share it with
them to help jump-start their time
travel experiment but they don't have
the calculations right yet it's not
working and Marta's disappeared yeah she
lied to them she's got plenty of juice
left and pieces out of there leaving
them stranded in 1880's turns out right
now she's working for Adam Jonas is
older
he's gathered all of secundus here in
the future and claims to have the
solution to finally fix this whole time
travel mess now there's a new character
this season who has no name but I'll
call him creepy cleft lip man in fact he
travels around with his younger and
older selves yeah there the cleft lip
trio he roams around the time line
pulling out his strangle string and
killing minor characters while his
younger and older self watch in the
aftermath of the world 1 apocalypse
Peter and Elizabeth Doppler are going
around looking for their family but
Charlotte Doppler was transported to the
far future where she's hanging out with
a grown up Elizabeth who she just found
out is her daughter and her mother all
things considered they process it pretty
well back in the immediate post
apocalypse a young Noah's befriended a
young Elizabeth but her father doesn't
trust him and he's right not to trust
people because the post apocalypse is
full of desperate scavengers oh they end
up in a big fight 10 both Elizabeth
kills this guy but not before he killed
her father she runs often teams up with
Noah that's how these two end up
together elsewhere in the immediate post
apocalypse Claudia Tiedemann is starting
to piece together this whole time travel
puzzle her daughter Regina survived in
the bunker with him but she's still
dying of cancer now Claudia was not
married and Regina's father is unknown
in the eighties she was having an affair
with truant Nielsen and we find out that
goes way back to when they were
teenagers
so taranta Nielsen is probably Regina's
father in fact an older truant Nielsen
shows up now in the post apocalypse like
hey sorry you're probably my daughter
but I've got a smother you with this
pillow this is the first of multiple
parent-child murders this season so
watch out for that yo mrs. mama hana
travel back to the 1950s last season and
she did in fact start up an affair with
young Aegon Tiedemann it's all fun and
games until she gets pregnant long story
short they fight about it and she leaves
to start a new life hey God apologizes
to his wife but she's still in love with
Agnes Nielsen her lesbian girlfriend
from last season who's gone missing now
beep new time-travel stuff anyway she
wants a divorce and aegon starts turning
into the old drunk cop from the eighties
we know Katerina Nielsen has time
traveled to the 80s to find her son
Mikkel who is now missing still turns
out he and his adopted mom are laying
low after Michael is kidnapped by the
crazy old man last season Katerina
tracked this crazy old man down and it
is her old husband old wreck she makes a
plan to break him out of here they're
not experienced enough time travelers to
have the idea to go back to the 50s when
he was still young anyway turns out a
nurse who works here is Catarina's
mother she was a bad abusive mom though
so Katerina goes to mugger like hey give
me your key card but bad mom fights back
and oh and sup killing her daughter
parent child murder number 2 now on
earth-2 yonas tracks down mark I like
hey I'm your time-traveling boyfriend
nephew from an alternate world I need
your help to stop the apocalypse Marta's
had just a
weird enough few days to be like yeah I
guess I'll follow the stranger into the
caves he takes her through the tomtravel
tunnel where they go to the earth to
future this apocalypse so everything in
the desert they meet up with adults
Marta who fills them in yeah the
apocalypse is coming you guys gotta go
stop it this is a lot for young Marta to
process but the onus is here to help her
through it and they start smooching and
wait a second no time travelers are
coming to cock-block them this time
these two finally get it on but just
then on earth one a slightly older
Marta's getting the news from Adam yeah
she's braggers 1 times all it took and
turns out her and yonas his son is the
start of this whole messed up family
tree their son is creepy cleft lip guy
and we see from the family tree that he
got with agnes Nielsen so he is truant
Nielsen's father the progenitor of the
Nielsen family line of which Marta and
Jonas are both descended they are their
own great-great grandparents but on
earth - they don't know this yet they're
breaking into the nuclear power plant to
stop the apocalypse but on the way in
Marty gets a cut under her eye the same
cut that the Marto who rescued him from
the apocalypse had notices like hold up
we're not changing anything we're just
causing the cycle to repeat our older
self slide to us again they go to
confront Eva who's like yes sorry I
totally lied to you I'm not trying to
stop the apocalypse I want to keep the
loop intact
and in fact yonus your part in it is
over just then an even more slightly
older Marta who's now got a big scar
comes out sorry about this and all those
shoots yonus a scarring tragic moment
for her younger self why would she do
this wait a second though you always
can't die here because we've seen his
old ourselves how does this work well
diva tries to explain that at the moment
of the apocalypse time stands still for
a fraction of a second that loophole
allows multiple timelines to exist
simultaneously the one we saw where
Marta takes him to earth - and the
normal one where he hides in the
basement and grows into his older cells
quantum entanglement
- make sense right yeah good enough so
now on earth - it's the day of the
apocalypse it happens a lot sooner on
this earth because the whole
investigation they cut through pretty
quick
Alexander Tiedemann for instance comes
clean about his fake identity it has
nothing to do with time travel it's just
normal mundane accidentally killed a guy
and assumed a fake identity he also
comes clean about the radioactive waste
and they open the barrels much earlier
so it's apocalypse blonde Marta is
racing to stop it with her earth -
long-haired bartosh but this is atoms
big moment he's sending all of sake move
this back to important points in the
timeline including an older Magnus and
Francisca to stop Marta like hey sorry
Eva lied to you you
come with us and work for Adam we can
stop the apocalypse for real so Martha's
caught up to her slightly older self who
rescued Onis from the apocalypse but now
in the future Adams got her tied up he's
like 66 years I've been searching for
the origin and turns out it is our baby
real sorry about this but the only way
to fix the timeline is to human
sacrifice you now so boom it's
apocalypse in earth 2 and with the power
of the apocalypse so Martha's
disintegrated but nothing happens Adam
doesn't fade from existence because
Eva's got her own troops going around
she doesn't want to erase the loop she
wants to keep it intact because she says
life is better than nothingness she
sends an older bartosh to rescue his
younger self and go find Marta when
she's about to rescue yonus say hey
Adams gonna betray you you got to come
back with me so because of the loophole
the second Marta exists and Eva who
gives her this car introduces her to her
son and is like hey the only way to save
him and all of us is for you to go kill
yonus now there's a great episode that
travels all around through time filling
in the details of things we could mostly
assume normal Leona survived the
apocalypse in his basement and worked
with Claudia Tiedemann to try to make
the time travel blog after a while he
lost hope but met up with young noah who
showed him hey man you can't die because
you need to grow into adam we're gonna
save the world so the three of them
spent 30 years together in the
apocalypse trying to turn the god
particle into the time-travel blob no
and elizabeth had a beautiful
relationship where she's like tell me
about paradise and he's like paradise is
gonna be wonderful baby trust me they
built a life together in the
post-apocalyptic wasteland and these two
are super cute until one day older
Elizabeth came with her mom daughter
Charlotte and kidnapped baby Charlotte
yes she kidnapped her own baby from
herself because now she believes that's
the only way to really make paradise
happen losing his daughter sent Noah
down a dark path and when they
eventually figured out time travel he
ended up working for Adam who was like
hey by killing the kids and inventing
time travel is the only way you can
actually save your daughter but of
course we know Adams lying to him again
one in the far past Jonases mom hana
shows up with her daughter buying on
Tiedemann and oh he spent his life
swearing it would never happen
yonus is becoming Adam after earth to
March of a trade him it sent him down a
dark path and they spent years trying to
fix time-travel which oh we ended up
getting pretty burned we can assume Hana
was sent here by Eva who at this point
Adam doesn't trust at all so sorry mom
but he smothers his mom child parent
murder number three he grabs his
half-sister named Julia and sends her to
the future because yeah that's the girl
with the scar we met in season two then
later an older Adam since her back to
the 1880s to meet and fall in love with
bartosh they have a son together and
turns out bartosh is Noah's father
tragically we know that older bar
Tasha's teenage Noah's first kill so
that's child-parent murder number four
and remember Noah's sister is Agnes
Nielsen who father's tromped with Martin
Jonas's son
so bartosh had a big role to play he's
super important to the family tree and
so all our characters grow into their
future selves and reenact seasons 1 & 2
thinking that now they're doing the real
thing to save the timeline but
unfortunately all their stories and
tragically and so at the end of Eunice's
journey he kills Marta and his unborn
son trying to erase the timeline but it
doesn't work who's this creeping around
the corner though it is old Claudia
Tatum in that time-travel master she
fills him in on wise plan didn't work
because he but grabbed an alternate
Martha and they still have the baby but
all hope is not lost because there's a
final twist there's not just two earths
there's three yeah in retrospect this
whole shows been about threes you really
should have seen that comment see early
on claudia was approached by her earth
to self and recruited her to work for
eva to keep the loop intact but claudia
doesn't like this loop because her
daughter reginae still dies in fact it's
claudia who sends John Nielsen back to
kill Regina to motivate her younger self
turns out truant is not the father now
because truant is not Regina's father
Regina's not part of this crazy
time-travel family tree if she can break
the loop Regina can live so Claudia
actually kills her earth-2 doppelganger
and replaces her on Eva's team she
spends her life traveling between the
two worlds learning everything about
both and finally infers the existence of
a third world the real world
yes turns out the real start of this
loop is 10 house the clock maker when
his son and family died in a car crash
he took up his family's ancient legacy
to try to invent time travel
turns out he kind of succeeded by
splitting his world into two and opening
the time travel wormhole in them so if
they can get to the origin world and
stop his family from dying they can
finally fix this whole mess
so back during the earth 1 apocalypse of
the pole Adam creates a new timeline
where he goes to see yonas minutes after
he just shot Marta he grabs him though
and warps him out of there like hey
sorry I just shot Marta I'm an older
Adam now and I realized I was actually
the bad guy I know I've done nothing but
lie to you so far telling you that this
time we can really fix things but this
time we can really fix things so yonas
finds her to Marta about to be picked up
by Cygnus and to be dramatic puts the
time machine in his pocket and Ramzan
time travel tackle miss Marta just saw
Yunus die and this Yunus has never met
birth to Marta but any illness and
Martha have a deep connection and she's
had just a weird in a few days to follow
him into the caves again so at the
moment when tan house prime fires up his
machine it opens up the passage and boom
we're in the real world hen house is
having a normal mundane argument with
his son who's like hey even though it's
dark and rainy we're gonna drive home
tonight but appearing on the road it's
yonas hen Marta and hoe know for a
second we think maybe they caused the
accident but luckily it doesn't go that
way he's like hey what are you two doing
in the road and they're like oh um the
bridge ahead is closed so he goes back
to his dad's hey we'll just leave in the
morning and they do not die in a car
crash tonight and yes yonas and Marta
are thanos snap disappearing we're a
perfect match never believe anything
else and these two fade out of existence
both worlds we know it raced from
existence which is a good thing because
on the whole they were pretty bad unison
Martin made the sacrifice but it's all
thanks to old Claudia Tiedemann who
figured it out so now in the present of
the one and only real world all the
characters who weren't part of the crazy
time-travel family tree are living
normal happy lives this includes
Claudia's daughter Regina who we see
from the family photo her father was old
burned dopler definitely a bit creepy
because he was a grown-ass man when she
was a preteen but from the photo they
seem like a happy family and I guess a
25 year age difference isn't that bad
compared to you know being your own
great-great grandparents anyway in this
world Hana is with eyepatch cop Waller
his eye is injured but it's gonna be
okay and we're just about to finally
find out what happened when the power
goes out now I need answers on against a
weird feeling of deja vu when she sees a
yellow rain jacket but it's like oh I
guess it was nothing she is in fact
pregnant and thinks to herself you know
I might name the baby Jonas and that's
how dark comes to an end hit that
subscribe button for more of the best
recaps of TV and movies and click the
join button to support the channel and
be a recap champion